# Sources
1. "[Persian campaign (World War I)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persian_campaign_(World_War_I))" Wikipedia. Accessed June 20th, 2025.
# Belligerents
1. [[Russia]]
2. [[British Empire]]
______
1. [[Ottoman Empire]]
______
1. [[Iran|Qajar Iran]]
## Casualties and losses
1. [[British Empire]]
	1. ~2,500 killed
______
1. [[Ottoman Empire]]
	1. ~11,000 killed, or dead due to disease.
# Location
[[Iran]]
# Causes
- Persia initially declared its neutrality at the outset of World War I, but other great powers had competing interests in the region.
	- Britain and Russia agreed to divide Persia into three regions as per the [[Anglo-Russian Convention]], with Russia laying claim to the north and Britain claiming the south bordering India.
	- The German Empire, via their [[Intelligence Bureau for the East]], promoted subversive, nationalist agitations in British India, Persia and Egypt in order to fight against the Anglo-Russian alliance.
	- The Ottoman Empire wanted to cut off Russian access to oil found in the [[Caspian Sea]]
		- [[Enver Pasha]] also saw the possibility of gaining access to [[Azerbaijan]], Central Asia and to [[India]], with the goal of expanding cooperation between these newly establishing states for his dreams of a pan-Turanian project.
# Events
- Persia did not have a single, unified army, but rather each district furnished its own battalion of troops, often irregular in nature and with no unified, formal training.
- In the course of World War I, all of the great powers deployed armies into and fought over lands in Persia.
# Outcome
- The British would issue the [[Anglo-Persian Agreement]] to Persia, giving drilling rights to the British Anglo-Persian Oil Company in August 1919, though it would dissolve a couple of years later on June 22nd, 1921, having never been ratified by the Majilis.
# Important Notes
- While Persia wasn’t of great importance during WWI, conquest by British and Russia, especially with regards to the 1908 discovery of oil in Persia, would set the stage for later conflict.