# Sources
1. Ben-Ami, Shlomo. *Scars of War, Wounds of Peace: The Israeli-Arab Tragedy*. Cary: Oxford University Press USA - OSO, 2007.
2. "[1964 Arab League summit (Cairo)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1964_Arab_League_summit_(Cairo))." Wikipedia. Accessed May 5th, 2024.
# Parties
- The [[Arab League]], consisting of and attended by all fourteen member states, the [[Egypt|United Arab Republic]] (then only Egypt), [[Iraq]], [[Lebanon]], [[Palestine]], [[Syria]], [[Saudi Arabia]], [[Jordan]], [[Yemen|Yemen Arab Republic]], [[Libya]], [[Sudan]], [[Morocco]], [[Tunisia]], [[Kuwait]], and [[Algeria]].
# Location
- [[Cairo]]
# Causes
# Facts

>[!quote]- Ben-Ami, Shlomo. *Scars of War, Wounds of Peace: The Israeli-Arab Tragedy*. (p. 97)
>The Arab League summit of January 1964 in Cairo went down in history as the first official all-Arab gathering to call for Arab military preparations in order to create the conditions ‘for the final liquidation of Israel’. The decision to divert the headwaters of the River Jordan in Syria and Lebanon–a United Arab Command was created to protect the project and prepare for war–and create the Palestinian Liberation Organisation under Ahmad al-Shuqayri’s chairmanship were understandably perceived in Israel as part of an overall Arab war strategy against the Jewish state. The task of liberating Palestine from ‘Zionist imperialism’ was reiterated in the Alexandria Arab League summit later that winter, and pledges were made by the League’s members to mobilise their resources against the Zionist enemy.
# Outcome
# Important Notes