# Sources
1. ”[1977 visit by Anwar Sadat to Israel](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/1977_visit_by_Anwar_Sadat_to_Israel).” Wikipedia. Accessed May 9th, 2024.
2. Ben-Ami, Shlomo. *Scars of War, Wounds of Peace: The Israeli-Arab Tragedy*. Cary: Oxford University Press USA - OSO, 2007.
# Parties
- [[Anwar Sadat]], the President of [[Egypt]], and the [[Israel|Israeli Knesset]].
# Location
- [[Jerusalem]], and other places in Israel.
# Causes
>[!quote]- Ben-Ami, Shlomo. *Scars of War, Wounds of Peace: The Israeli-Arab Tragedy*. (p. 158)
>One lesson and legacy of Sadat’s initiative is that in highly protracted conflicts where deep emotions and historical hatred are involved, when almost every conceivable diplomatic formula has been tried, the shock of a visionary, generous and imaginative step is likely to open new and untold paths to peace. For the major problem in the Arab–Israeli conflict, as in many other intricate collisions throughout history, has always been the incapacity or unwillingness of leaders to conduct a peace policy that is not supported by what looked at the time like the legitimate, and frequently paralysing, consensus prevailing in their respective societies and polities. Leaders, more frequently than not, act as the hostages of the socio-political environment that produces them instead of shaping it. Anwar Sadat gained a privileged place in history and achieved immortality the moment he fled from the comfortable prison of inertia, and from the pseudo-solidarity and hollow rhetorical cohesion of Arab summits.
# Facts
# Outcome
# Important Notes