# Sources
1. Wikipedia, "[2006 Lebanon War](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2006_Lebanon_War)" - Accessed 2024-05-29
2. Patrick Porter, “Military Orientalism: Eastern War Through Western Eyes”, chapter 7. 2009.
# Belligerents
1. [[Israel]]
	1. Notable Leaders
		1. Prime Minister - [[Ehud Olmert]]
		2. Chief of Staff - [[Dan Halutz]]
	2. Strength in numbers
______
1. [[Lebanon]]
2. [[Hezbollah]]
	1. Notable Leaders
		1. Leader - [[Shaikh Hassan Nasrallah]]
	2. Strength in numbers
## Casualties and losses
1. Country/Faction 1
	1. Deaths
	2. Wounded
	3. Imprisoned
______
1. Country/Faction 2
	1. Deaths
	2. Wounded
	3. Imprisoned
# Location
# Causes
Hezbollah captured two IDF soldiers.
# Events
Israel dramatically underestimated Hezbollah and failed to achieve the ambitious political objectives it had set out to accomplish, namely the swift dismantling of Hezbollah while maintaining political good-will with the world.

Israel made a massive error in assuming that Hezbollah was strictly a primitive guerrilla army incapable of utilizing sophisticated warfare, such as the launching of missiles or intercepting of Israeli communications.

The world was not a neutral battleground for the Israeli state, either. Many were ready to receive the message of Israel as the aggressive bully, who’s bombings were not turning the Lebanese population against Hezbollah but were instead strengthening their hatred of Israelis. Third parties stood ready to capitalize off the fighting as well, with Hezbollah posing children as dead in the street; Reuters had to publicly admit that a photographer even photoshopped some smoke in a picture of Beirut to make the devastation seem more harsh than it actually was.

# Outcome
- Hezbollah’s survival was a massive military and political victory.
- Hezbollah, after the war, sent engineers and builders into Lebanon to rebuild homes and destroyed areas, while also promising money to families of dead or wounded victims of the war.s of the war.
- Israel’s image was hurt throughout the world and domestically.
# Important Notes