## Composition
- Formation - [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_House_Select_Committee_on_the_January_6_Attack)
	- On May 19th, 2021, the House voted to form an independent bicameral commission to investigate the Jan 6th insurrection.
		- Vote passed 252-175 with 35 Republicans joining in favor.
	- Senate Republicans blocked the bicameral commission, leading to House Speaker Pelosi to appoint a select committee using only House members.
	- On June 30th, 2021, House Resolution 503 "Establishing the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on teh United States Capitol" passed the House 222-190. All Democrats and only two Republicans, Kinzinger and Cheney, voted in favor.
	- On July 1st, Pelosi appoints eight members, with Cheney being the sole Republican.
	- On July 19th, McCarthy suggests Jim Banks, Jim Jordan, Rodney Davis, Kelly Armstrong and Troy Nehls.
		- Banks, Jordan and Nehls voted to overturn the EC results in Arizona and Pennsylvania.
		- Banks and Jordan signed onto the Supreme Court case *Texas v. Pennsylvania* to invalidate the ballots of voters in four states.
	- On July 21st, Pelosi announced that she would reject Jordan and Banks, but would accept the other three recommendations.
		- McCarthy said it was all or nothing, costing Republicans almost all of their representation on the January 6th Select Committee.
	- On July 25th, Pelosi announced her appointment of Adam Kinzinger to the committee.
		- Notably, Kinzinger was one of only ten House Republicans to vote for TRump's second impeachment.
	- Members
		- BENNIE G. THOMPSON (D) Mississippi, Chairman
		- LIZ CHENEY (R) Wyoming, Vice Chair
		- ZOE LOFGREN (D) California
		- ADAM B. SCHIFF (D) California
		- PETE AGUILAR (D) California
		- STEPHANIE N. MURPHY (D) Florida
		- JAMIE RASKIN (D) Maryland
		- ELAINE G. LURIA (D) Virginia
		- ADAM KINZINGER (R) Illinois
	- Majority of the witnesses involved in the J6 Select Committee Report were Republicans.
		- Two of President Trump’s former Attorneys General, his former White House Counsel, numerous members of his White House staff, and the highest-ranking members of his 2020 election campaign, including his campaign manager and his campaign general counsel.











