# Sources
1. Ben-Ami, Shlomo. *Scars of War, Wounds of Peace: The Israeli-Arab Tragedy*. Cary: Oxford University Press USA - OSO, 2007.
2. "[Lausanne Conference of 1949](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lausanne_Conference_of_1949)." Wikipedia. Accessed May 4th, 2024.
# Parties
- Convened by the [[United Nations Conciliation Commission for Palestine|UNCCP]]
- [[Israel]], [[Egypt]], [[Jordan]], [[Lebanon]], [[Syria]], the [[Arab Higher Committee]], and representatives for the Palestinian refugees.
# Location
- [[Lausanne]], Switzerland.
- Concerning the new state of [[Israel]].
# Causes
# Facts
>[!quote]- Ben-Ami, Shlomo. *Scars of War, Wounds of Peace: The Israeli-Arab Tragedy*. (p. 50)
>On moral grounds one could of course convincingly defend the case for the repatriation of refugees. But this was out of the question in a historical and political context, where a clash existed between an emergent Jewish state and its defeated enemies, for whom the repatriation of refugees was one way of hampering the growth and development of the newborn, yet intimidating, state against which they harboured understandable intentions of revanche. At the Lausanne Peace Conference Israel eventually agreed to the repatriation of 100,000 Palestinian refugees, but this was almost by force of habit rejected out of hand by the Arabs as too little. Too little it might have been, but Israel made the offer only with the hope of getting relief from American pressure. The Arabs clearly missed an opportunity to call Israel’s bluff.
# Outcome
# Important Notes